>> Jafar Husain: Any other
questions out there?
I'm actually somebody asked that
question cuz I wanted to cover subjects.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: I have a question about
the async iterator proposal.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Do you see any way that
you can use them together
with observables?
>> Jafar Husain: Absolutely, the main
difference between an async iterator and
an observable, as I think I eluded to
early, an async iterator is almost
exactly, but not entirely exactly,
like an iterator of promises.
So I say hey, give me the next value.
And then the producer, instead of
giving me the value immediately,
it gives me a promise which
eventually resolves to the value.
And what's great about that is for
things like I/O for
example, I can read data at my leisure,
right?
Let's say I'm writing out to an output
stream, and I can only write so fast.
Well I can decide to read, whenever
I'm ready, I can just call next and
I get the next value.
All right so, asynchronous iterables,
just like regular iterables,
the consumer is in power and
they decide when to pull the next value.
Observable flips that around, right?
With and observable, the producer
decides when you get the next value.
And there's no way of telling
the observable cool it for a while man.
I'm not quite ready yet.
You can unsubscribe but
that's not the same thing as
pausing the observable, all right.
If you unsubscribe, then you resubscribe
you might cancel a network request, or
kick off a whole new network request
which will get different data.
So it's important to understand
that unsubscribing and
resubscribing might have
a whole bunch of side effects.
It is not the same as pausing a stream.
Does that make sense?
So in order to adapt an observable
into an asychronous inerator,
basically you need some
back pressure strategy.
You need a way of kinda pausing
the observable even though
there's not way out of the box
of pausing the observable.
And the most obvious strategy
is two obvious ones.
One if buffer, right?
Well, data's coming, but
the consumer's not ready for it yet.
So I'm gonna put it over here in a buffer.
And then the other one is drop.
Just throw the data away, right?
You could,
basically it's like a buffer of one.
You can put it in one and
then you can throw away any overflow data.
>> Speaker 2: Isn't that kind
of what a debounce is though?
>> Jafar Husain: Well it's
similar to a debounce, similar.
But it's not the same thing because in
a debounce usually you're doing it for
some period of time.
Whereas in this case you're kind of
debouncing until the consumer sends you
an explicit request signal.
And there's no concept of
that in observable, right?
There's no pull, it's all push.
But it's similar in some
way to the demounts.
And then of course,
you could drop all the new ones.
You could also drop all the old ones,
there's a whole bunch of variations.
But yeah, it's pretty straightforward to
adapt an observable into an async iterable
as long as you don't mind
losing a little data or
you don't mind an unbounded buffer.
Now in general, you're probably, since
async iterable is the most flexible type,
in the end you can always adapt
an observable into a async iterable.
You could also go the other way as well,
right?
That would just mean four
looping over the async iterable,
and then next thing and
pushing out, right?
In general, I'm not sure how commonly
they're gonna be used together.
In practice, I think you're gonna see a
lot more async iterables on the server and
you're gonna see a lot more
observables in the client.
In general async iterable makes a lot
of sense when you're doing IO, right?
Cuz you can only write at a certain
speed with async iterables.
And so that makes sense cuz
you have back pressure.
But if you're working with events, well,
you can't tell the user to wait, right?
[LAUGH] The user can always click a new
key and so observables are a much better
fit for evented programming, like the type
of programming we see in the front end.